---
yip: 14
title: yEarn Rewards Reserve
status: Rejected
author: YieldBouncer (@yieldbouncer)
discussions-to: https://gov.yearn.finance/t/yip-14-yearn-rewards-reserve/136
created: 2020-07-24
---

## Simple Summary
Without a cash reserve, it is difficult to sustain and improve the protocol further. As a community, we need to start capturing and reserving a percentage of the value being generated by yEarn in order to support further development, improve security, sponsor research, e.t.c.

To get started, I propose we capture 5% of all yields earned through yEarn to be used as a reserve for the protocol.

## Abstract
@andre.cronje has done an amazing job so far at developing the protocol. As a community, we should support his efforts. To achieve that, I propose that we should start reserving 5% of all yields earned for protocol use. How we plan to use it and what would be the sensible threshold for the reserve percentage can be determined in a different proposal

## Motivation
One of the best things about the yEarn ecosystem is that there isn’t any pre-mined tokens. No money was taken from VC nor did @andre.cronje attempted to IXO (e.g. IDO, ICO) YFI tokens. This is as good as we can get when it comes to decentralization for a working and profitable defi project! Unfortunately, there are also downsides for not having some cash reserved:

- Unable to cover expensive audits for contracts
- Incentive to continue building awesome products
- Fund/grants to sponsor researches in order to improve the products
- General marketing and user support

**FOR**: Reserve 5% of all yields earned through yEarn for protocol use.

**AGAINST**: No changes. All rewards will continue to distribute evenly among YFI stakers.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
